README.md, before:

# PinLockView
A clean, minimalistic, easy-to-use and highly customizable pin lock custom view for Android.

### Specs
[ ![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/aritraroy/maven/pin-lock-view/images/download.svg) ](https://bintray.com/aritraroy/maven/pin-lock-view/_latestVersion) [![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-11%2B-orange.svg?style=flat)](https://android-arsenal.com/api?level=11) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) [![Android Arsenal](https://img.shields.io/badge/Android%20Arsenal-PinLockView-green.svg?style=true)](https://android-arsenal.com/details/1/3706)

![PinLockView](https://github.com/aritraroy/PinLockView/blob/master/screens/logo.png)

This library allows you to implement a pin lock mechanism in your app **easily and quickly**. There are **plenty of customization options** available to change the look-and-feel of this view to match your app's theme.

You can also use it as a dial pad to dial numbers. There are several other use cases of this library and is not restricted to only pin locking.

![PinLockView](https://github.com/aritraroy/PinLockView/blob/master/screens/promo.png)

# Download

This library is available in **jCenter** which is the default Maven repository used in Android Studio.

## Gradle 
```gradle
dependencies {
    // other dependencies here
    
    implementation 'com.andrognito.pinlockview:pinlockview:2.1.0'
}
```

## Maven

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.andrognito.pinlockview</groupId>
  <artifactId>pinlockview</artifactId>
  <version>2.1.0</version>
  <type>pom</type>
</dependency>
```

# Usage
We recommend you to **check the sample app** to get a complete understanding of the library. The step-by-step implementation guide is as follows.

### Step 1

Place the view in your XML layout file.

```xml
    <com.andrognito.pinlockview.PinLockView
        android:id="@+id/pin_lock_view"
        android:layout_width="wrap_content"
        android:layout_height="wrap_content" />
```

### Step 2

Reference the view in code and add a listener to it.

```java
    mPinLockView = (PinLockView) findViewById(R.id.pin_lock_view);
    mPinLockView.setPinLockListener(mPinLockListener);
```

Implement the listener interface as follows,

```java
private PinLockListener mPinLockListener = new PinLockListener() {
    @Override
    public void onComplete(String pin) {
        Log.d(TAG, "Pin complete: " + pin);
     }

    @Override
    public void onEmpty() {
        Log.d(TAG, "Pin empty");
    }

    @Override
    public void onPinChange(int pinLength, String intermediatePin) {
         Log.d(TAG, "Pin changed, new length " + pinLength + " with intermediate pin " + intermediatePin);
    }
};
```

And that's it! Your PinLockView is ready to rock.

But the good thing is that the ```PinLockView``` comes with a whole lot of customization options which you can use to customize the view in any way you want.

# Customization

## IndicatorDots (Addon)
PinLockView comes bundled with an addon view, ```IndicatorDots``` which can be optionally attached with the PinLockView to indicate pin changes visually to the user.

This **view has been decoupled from the PinLockView** so that you can optionally add it, if necessary. Suppose you are implementing a dial pad, then you will certainly not need this IndicatorView.

Add the view to you XML layout, generally placed above your PinLockView,

```xml
 <com.andrognito.pinlockview.IndicatorDots
        android:id="@+id/indicator_dots"
        android:layout_width="wrap_content"
        android:layout_height="wrap_content" />
```
then find a reference to the view and attach it to the parent PinLockView,

```java
mIndicatorDots = (IndicatorDots) findViewById(R.id.indicator_dots);
mPinLockView.attachIndicatorDots(mIndicatorDots);
```

You **MUST** attach it to the PinLockView, otherwise it will be simply ignored.

## Theming

There are several theming options available through XML attributes which you can use to completely change the look-and-feel of this view to match the theme of your app.

```xml
  app:pinLength="6"                                       // Change the pin length
  app:keypadTextColor="#E6E6E6"                           // Change the color of the keypad text
  app:keypadTextSize="16dp"                               // Change the text size in the keypad
  app:keypadButtonSize="72dp"                             // Change the size of individual keys/buttons
  app:keypadVerticalSpacing="24dp"                        // Alters the vertical spacing between the keypad buttons
  app:keypadHorizontalSpacing="36dp"                      // Alters the horizontal spacing between the keypad buttons
  app:keypadButtonBackgroundDrawable="@drawable/bg"       // Set a custom background drawable for the buttons
  app:keypadDeleteButtonDrawable="@drawable/ic_back"      // Set a custom drawable for the delete button
  app:keypadDeleteButtonSize="16dp"                       // Change the size of the delete button icon in the keypad
  app:keypadShowDeleteButton="false"                      // Should show the delete button, default is true
  app:keypadDeleteButtonPressedColor="#C8C8C8"            // Change the pressed/focused state color of the delete button
  
  app:dotEmptyBackground="@drawable/empty"                // Customize the empty state of the dots
  app:dotFilledBackground"@drawable/filled"               // Customize the filled state of the dots
  app:dotDiameter="12dp"                                  // Change the diameter of the dots
  app:dotSpacing="16dp"                                   // Change the spacing between individual dots
  app:indicatorType="fillWithAnimation"                   // Choose between "fixed", "fill" and "fillWithAnimation"
```

# Contribution

This library is quite exhaustive and offers a lot of customization options. If you find a bug or would like to improve any aspect of it, feel free to contribute with pull requests.

# About The Author

### Aritra Roy

Android & Backend Developer. Blogger. Designer. Fitness Enthusiast.

<a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.codexapps.andrognito&hl=en" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/play-store-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a> <a href="https://blog.aritraroy.in/" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/medium-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a>
<a href="http://stackoverflow.com/users/2858654/aritra-roy" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/stackoverflow-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/aritraroy" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/twitter-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a>
<a href="http://linkedin.com/in/aritra-roy"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/linkedin-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a>


# License

```
Copyright 2017 aritraroy

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```

Commit message:

Update README for the fork

README.md, after:

# PinLockView

Note: This fork contains a few crucial updates and improvements on the original Android Library.

1. Move to AndroidX (thanks to @cdiamon)
2. Fixes [the Zero always "clicked" with selector drawable background](https://github.com/aritraroy/PinLockView/issues/53)
3. Fixes a disappearing delete button after the first deletion

A clean, minimalistic, easy-to-use and highly customizable pin lock custom view for Android.

### Specs
[ ![Download](https://api.bintray.com/packages/aritraroy/maven/pin-lock-view/images/download.svg) ](https://bintray.com/aritraroy/maven/pin-lock-view/_latestVersion) [![API](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-11%2B-orange.svg?style=flat)](https://android-arsenal.com/api?level=11) [![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/Apache-2.0) [![Android Arsenal](https://img.shields.io/badge/Android%20Arsenal-PinLockView-green.svg?style=true)](https://android-arsenal.com/details/1/3706)

![PinLockView](https://github.com/aritraroy/PinLockView/blob/master/screens/logo.png)

This library allows you to implement a pin lock mechanism in your app **easily and quickly**. There are **plenty of customization options** available to change the look-and-feel of this view to match your app's theme.

You can also use it as a dial pad to dial numbers. There are several other use cases of this library and is not restricted to only pin locking.

![PinLockView](https://github.com/aritraroy/PinLockView/blob/master/screens/promo.png)

# Download

This library is available in **jCenter** which is the default Maven repository used in Android Studio.

## Gradle 
```gradle
dependencies {
    // other dependencies here
    
    implementation 'com.andrognito.pinlockview:pinlockview:2.1.0'
}
```

## Maven

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.andrognito.pinlockview</groupId>
  <artifactId>pinlockview</artifactId>
  <version>2.1.0</version>
  <type>pom</type>
</dependency>
```

# Usage
We recommend you to **check the sample app** to get a complete understanding of the library. The step-by-step implementation guide is as follows.

### Step 1

Place the view in your XML layout file.

```xml
    <com.andrognito.pinlockview.PinLockView
        android:id="@+id/pin_lock_view"
        android:layout_width="wrap_content"
        android:layout_height="wrap_content" />
```

### Step 2

Reference the view in code and add a listener to it.

```java
    mPinLockView = (PinLockView) findViewById(R.id.pin_lock_view);
    mPinLockView.setPinLockListener(mPinLockListener);
```

Implement the listener interface as follows,

```java
private PinLockListener mPinLockListener = new PinLockListener() {
    @Override
    public void onComplete(String pin) {
        Log.d(TAG, "Pin complete: " + pin);
     }

    @Override
    public void onEmpty() {
        Log.d(TAG, "Pin empty");
    }

    @Override
    public void onPinChange(int pinLength, String intermediatePin) {
         Log.d(TAG, "Pin changed, new length " + pinLength + " with intermediate pin " + intermediatePin);
    }
};
```

And that's it! Your PinLockView is ready to rock.

But the good thing is that the ```PinLockView``` comes with a whole lot of customization options which you can use to customize the view in any way you want.

# Customization

## IndicatorDots (Addon)
PinLockView comes bundled with an addon view, ```IndicatorDots``` which can be optionally attached with the PinLockView to indicate pin changes visually to the user.

This **view has been decoupled from the PinLockView** so that you can optionally add it, if necessary. Suppose you are implementing a dial pad, then you will certainly not need this IndicatorView.

Add the view to you XML layout, generally placed above your PinLockView,

```xml
 <com.andrognito.pinlockview.IndicatorDots
        android:id="@+id/indicator_dots"
        android:layout_width="wrap_content"
        android:layout_height="wrap_content" />
```
then find a reference to the view and attach it to the parent PinLockView,

```java
mIndicatorDots = (IndicatorDots) findViewById(R.id.indicator_dots);
mPinLockView.attachIndicatorDots(mIndicatorDots);
```

You **MUST** attach it to the PinLockView, otherwise it will be simply ignored.

## Theming

There are several theming options available through XML attributes which you can use to completely change the look-and-feel of this view to match the theme of your app.

```xml
  app:pinLength="6"                                       // Change the pin length
  app:keypadTextColor="#E6E6E6"                           // Change the color of the keypad text
  app:keypadTextSize="16dp"                               // Change the text size in the keypad
  app:keypadButtonSize="72dp"                             // Change the size of individual keys/buttons
  app:keypadVerticalSpacing="24dp"                        // Alters the vertical spacing between the keypad buttons
  app:keypadHorizontalSpacing="36dp"                      // Alters the horizontal spacing between the keypad buttons
  app:keypadButtonBackgroundDrawable="@drawable/bg"       // Set a custom background drawable for the buttons
  app:keypadDeleteButtonDrawable="@drawable/ic_back"      // Set a custom drawable for the delete button
  app:keypadDeleteButtonSize="16dp"                       // Change the size of the delete button icon in the keypad
  app:keypadShowDeleteButton="false"                      // Should show the delete button, default is true
  app:keypadDeleteButtonPressedColor="#C8C8C8"            // Change the pressed/focused state color of the delete button
  
  app:dotEmptyBackground="@drawable/empty"                // Customize the empty state of the dots
  app:dotFilledBackground"@drawable/filled"               // Customize the filled state of the dots
  app:dotDiameter="12dp"                                  // Change the diameter of the dots
  app:dotSpacing="16dp"                                   // Change the spacing between individual dots
  app:indicatorType="fillWithAnimation"                   // Choose between "fixed", "fill" and "fillWithAnimation"
```

# Contribution

This library is quite exhaustive and offers a lot of customization options. If you find a bug or would like to improve any aspect of it, feel free to contribute with pull requests.

# About The Author

### Aritra Roy

Android & Backend Developer. Blogger. Designer. Fitness Enthusiast.

<a href="https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.codexapps.andrognito&hl=en" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/play-store-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a> <a href="https://blog.aritraroy.in/" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/medium-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a>
<a href="http://stackoverflow.com/users/2858654/aritra-roy" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/stackoverflow-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a>
<a href="https://twitter.com/aritraroy" target="_blank"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/twitter-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a>
<a href="http://linkedin.com/in/aritra-roy"><img src="https://github.com/aritraroy/social-icons/blob/master/linkedin-icon.png?raw=true" width="60"></a>


# License

```
Copyright 2017 aritraroy

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
```
